Let's see,
if I run this on the real thing, okay,
we have products, we have offers.
We have the order that says it's empty,
okay?
So this is kind of working so
far at this point, okay?
Details is the one that is also showing
any dummy product and not the real ones.
So the next step,
just to finish wiring this,
all the missing points is
to download the JSON, okay?
It will be interesting to do that.
And for that,
the iOS provides a class, an API,
to actually access a native
way to download files.
But instead of using that native API,
we're going to use a framework.
This is like the framework that every
Swift developer is using to use in
the network.
It's called Alamofire.
And also it's a good opportunity
to use one dependency, so
we can actually see how that works.
So if you go to the companion
website using APIs and JSON,
in the first example, you have the step.
It's not a big deal, but
you have the link to Alamofire,
the website in case you wanna get more
information about how that works.
And also there is a URL.
In fact, it's a Git file in GitHub.
So github.com/Alamofire/alamofire.git.
I will copy that to my clipboard.
And to add a dependency,
an external dependency,
I will go to the Project Explorer,
right-click in my project, and
I will select Add Packages.
Okay, so you right-click in the project,
Add Packages.
And here, I can paste the URL.
So every open source project for
Swift, every dependency,
you will have the link to actually use it,
okay?
So I'm pasting the GitHub URL of Alamofire
here, and I will pick Add Package.
This is like NPM install, if you want,
okay, compared with JavaScript.
So if I click Add Package, it's going to
fetch the last version of the library.
Finally, we hit Add Package,
and we are done.
Now we can use it, and
the dependency appears here at
the bottom of the project, okay?
You see, we have Alamofire.
>> Is there any versioning on that?
>> You know how in package.json,
it adds something that says,
this is my dependency and my version.
>> We have something similar here.
So if you go to the dependencies
section or the package,
when you add the package also.
When you are answering the version number,
here,
you can actually select
the version number.
An exact version, by default,
is downloading the latest one.
But yeah, you do have also.
If you right-click on your project and
you click Show in Finder,
you will see the real file system.
And in the real file system, okay,
you will find some configuration
files similar to package.json.
I'm not saying that you wanna deal
with that or you wanna play with that.
But also, if you click in the project and
you are in General,
if you scroll down,
there is a section for frameworks,
libraries, and embedded content.
And here, we have Alamofire.
So if I remove that,
you can still do that, okay?
Alamofire, it's actually pretty simple.
It works like the Fetch API in JavaScript.
You just call a function,
and then you get the data.
As simple as that in a callback.
So it's actually pretty,
pretty simple to use, okay?
So in our MenuManager,
actually we can add the code
here to actually download the data, okay?
Here if you go to the next section,
the code,
you can see it's actually
simple to understand, okay?
So I create a function,
That is calling AF, Alamofire.
But in this case,
Alamofire is an external framework.
So it's the first time we actually need to
import something, import Alamofire, okay?
And Alamofire has a request function,
similar to fetch or jQuery, Ajax.
If you want, you pass the URL, and
then you need to specify here.
The weird part here is this one.
You need to specify what are you expecting
in terms of data type from the JSON.
This is going to parse
the JSON automatically and
it will map the JSON to my data model,
okay?
Automatically, it will match that.
So how do you pass a type as an argument?
The type .self, so
array of category .self,
it's saying, I'm expecting you to
return the array of categories.
>> It has to be matching exactly
everything, I mean, can you-
>> No, you don't need a one-to-one match.
>> Subset has to be-
>> It can be a subset.
Also, for a more advanced situation,
you can map.
Yeah, you can specify, okay,
on the JSON, this is the key name.
On my structure,
this is the variable name.
So yeah,
you can actually customize that, sure.
So in this case, look at the code.
So I have a function
refreshItemsFromNetwork that
makes a request.
And then it says array of categories.
And then if it's there, because maybe
there is an error or, I don't know,
something happens,
I'm saving that as my menu.
And because it's published,
if everything works,
it should automatically appear
with wherever binding you have.
The only error that we have is that it's
complaining about something that says,
category is not conforming to decodable.
And what's that?
If you want your data model to
automatically be able to be converted
from and to JSON and
other formats, but let's say JSON,
it must conform to a protocol
that is called decodable.
With decodable, it can be decoded.
You also have encodable, to encode.
And if you want both at the same time,
you do have codable.
That is a type alias, actually,
that applies both decodable and encodable.
So it's an alias to the type, okay?
But for now, we just need decodable.
With that, for what we are doing here,
decodable is fine.
And because category has
an array of product,
product needs also to be decodable, okay?
So we just need to add the protocol name,
that's all.
We don't need to write any
code by default, okay?
With that,
it means that it will just work.
Let's see if it compiles, it compiles.
By the way, how I'm compiling so quickly?
Cmd+B, it's building the project.
So I know if it's compiling or not.
And something that I can do is when
I'm initializing the MenuManager,
I can just call refresh.
So when the app starts, we go to
the network and download the data.
Again, this is going to the network,
downloading the JSON file, and
automatically mapping the JSON
that is coming from the network
to my data model, okay?
Does it make sense?
You see if it's working right now
before actually seeing it in action,
we can print response.value and
see what we see, okay?
So if I run this in the emulator, here,
if you look at the console,
we have a JSON output.
And if it's not easy to read here,
we can always go to the output navigator,
it's this one.
And this is the one that
we are looking for.
And if we drive, you have here the JSON.
So it's actually downloading the JSON
from, you see here, nonfat milk,
blended with blah, blah.
This is kinda the data, okay?
This is actually the data.
>> How did you get it to run?
>> Here?
>> refreshItemsFromNetwork,
you've got it to run somehow.
>> Because it's an init.
And you say, who is calling init?
Well, init is a constructor, so
it's actually being called automatically.
And who is creating the MenuManager?
We did that at the app level.
Not sure if you remember that.
Here, we are creating the MenuManager.
When we are creating the instance,
the initializer is being executed.